About
-----
DVBStreamer is an console based application to stream an entire DVB service
over UDP.
It differs from other DVB streaming applications by the use of the DVB-SI to
work out the PIDs to stream and correctly stream services which use a separate
PCR PID.

Requirements
------------
DVBStreamer requires the following libraries:
sqlite3 (http://www.sqlite.org/)
dvbpsi  (http://developers.videolan.org/libdvbpsi/)
readline 

Installation
------------

Before building dvbstreamer you will need the latest version of the following packages:
libdvbpsi   0.15
sqlite3     3.3.x
readline

Now download and extract the latest source from the sourceforge download page

Once you've done that the next thing to do is run configure to setup the makefile, to do this enter the following at the command prompt (add any options you would normal add when building using configure)

./configure

When configure has finished and created all the make files its just a matter of running make to build the application

make

Once make has finished doing its thing the next step is installing dvbstreamer to you chosen location. You will probably want to do this step as root

make install

Setup
-----
Before you can actually start to use dvbstreamer you need to initialise it's database of service to do this you'll need a channels.conf file produces by the linuxtv.org utility scan. Go here if you need help with scan.

When you have a channels.conf file you then need to run setupdvbstreamer with the file you've just created.
To setup dvbstreamer to use a terrestrial tuner on adapter 0 use the following command:

setupdvbstreamer -t channels.conf

To setup dvbstreamer to use a satellite tuner on adapter 0 use the following command:

setupdvbstreamer -s channels.conf

To setup dvbstreamer to use a cable tuner on adapter 0 use the following command:

setupdvbstreamer -c channels.conf
        
If you are setting up an adapter other than 0 add the -a <adapter number> option to the commands above.

If you have 2 or more cards of the same type in your system you can link the first cards database to the second cards database by simply creating a hard link in the dvbstreamer directory in your home directory ~/.dvbstreamer

for example to use the same database for card 1 and 2 you would do the following

ln ~/.dvbstreamer/adapter1.db ~/.dvbstreamer/adapter2.db


Running
--------
  Starting DVBStreamer

  Using a Startup file

  MRLs

Starting DVBStreamer
--------------------
To start dvbstreamer you need to specify an IP address and a UDP port where the selected service will be streamed to. You can also optionally specify which adapter to use using the -a option.

For example to start dvbstreamer using adapter 2 and send the selected service to 192.168.1.1 and UDP port 1234 you would use the following command

dvbstreamer -a 2 -o udp://192.168.1.1:1234

To select a service to stream use the select command (see the Commands section for more information).

For example:

select BBC ONE

Will tune to the multiplex that contains BBC ONE and stream all the packets belonging to that service to 192.168.1.1:1234 over udp.

The stats command can be used to verify that packets are being processed and set to the selected output destination.

For information on other commands see the Commands section.

Start up files
--------------

Start up files can be useful for doing things that you always want to be setup before you get to the dvbstreamer prompt. For example you may always want the TDT and EIT tables redirected to a specific UDP port on your local computer.

To use a startup file simple add the -f option on the command line specifying the file to read.

For example to use the file eitredirect to redirect EIT tables to port 1235 on your local computer you would use the following:

dvbstreamer -o localhost:1234 -f eitredirect

And in eitredirect you would have

# Redirect EIT tables to port 1235 on localhost
addoutput eitoutput localhost:1235
addpid eitoutput 0x12

Its as simple as that, you can use all the commands that you can use on the dvbstreamer prompt.

MRLs (Media Resource Locator)
-----------------------------

These are in the form <transport>://<details> and are used to specified how and where to send the output of a service filter or a manual output.

The following MRLs are currently supported (although this list can be extended by plugins):
Transport Usage           Description
-------------------------------------
udp       udp://host:port Packets are sent via UDP (7 TS packets per UDP packet) 
                          to the specified port on the host.
file      file://filepath Packets are written to the specified file.
null      null://         Packets are thrown away.

Commands
--------
quit............Exit the program
lsservices......List all services or for a specific multiplex.
lsmuxes.........List multiplexes
select..........Select a new service to stream
current.........Print out the service currently being streamed.
serviceinfo.....Display information about a service.
pids............List the PIDs for a specified service
stats...........Display the stats for the PAT,PMT and service PID filters
addoutput.......Add a new destination for manually filtered PIDs.
rmoutput........Remove a destination for manually filtered PIDs.
lsoutputs.......List current outputs
setoutputmrl....Set the output's MRL
addpid..........Adds a PID to filter to an output
rmpid...........Removes a PID to filter from an output
lspids..........List PIDs for output
addsf...........Add a service filter for secondary services
rmsf............Remove a service filter for secondary services
lssfs...........List all secondary service filters
setsf...........Select a service to stream to a secondary service output
setsfmrl........Set the service filter's MRL
setsfavsonly....Enable/disable streaming of Audio/Video/Subtitles only.
festatus........Displays the status of the tuner.
scan............Scan the specified multiplex for services.
help............Display the list of commands or help on a specific command
lsplugins.......List loaded plugins.
plugininfo......Display the information about a plugin

quit
----
Usage:  quit

Exit the program, can be used in the startup file to stop further processing.

lsservices
----------
Usage:  lsservies [mux | <multiplex frequency>]

Lists all the services currently in the database if no multiplex is specified or if "mux" is specified only the services available of the current mux or if a frequency is specified only the services available on that multiplex.

lsmuxes
-------
Usage:  lsmuxes

List all multiplexes.

select
------
Usage:  select <service name>

Sets the specified service as the service to be streamed to the primary output, this may mean tuning to a different multiplex.

current
-------
Usage:  current

Shows the service that is currently being streamed to the default output.
Back serviceinfo

Usage:  serviceinfo <service name>

Displays running status, conditional access status and whether EPG information is present for the specified service. Note only services in the current multiplex can be queried.

pids
----
Usage:  pids <service name>

List the PIDs for the specified service.

stats
-----
Usage:  stats

Display the number of packets processed for the PSI/SI filters and the number of packets filtered for each service filter and manual output.

addoutput
---------
Usage:  addoutput <output name> <mrl>

Adds a new destination for sending packets to. This is only used for manually filtered packets. To send packets to this destination you'll need to also call 'addpid' with this output as an argument.

rmoutput
--------
Usage:  rmoutput <output name>

Removes the destination and stops all filters associated with this output.

lsoutputs
---------
Usage:  lsoutputs

List all active additonal manual output names and their MRLs.

setoutputmrl
------------
Usage:  setoutputmrl <output name> <mrl>

Change the destination for packets sent to this output. If the MRL cannot be parsed no change will be made to the output.

addpid
------
Usage:  addpid <output name> <pid>

Adds a PID to the filter to be sent to the specified output. The PID can be specified in either hex (starting with 0x) or decimal format.

rmpid
-----
Usage:  rmpid <output name> <pid>

Removes the PID from the filter that is sending packets to the specified output.The PID can be specified in either hex (starting with 0x) or decimal format.

lspids
------
Usage:  lspids <output name>

List the PIDs being filtered for a specific output.

addsf
-----
Usage:  addsf <output name> <mrl>

Adds a new destination for sending a secondary service to.

rmsf
----
Usage:  rmsf <output name>

Remove a destination for sending secondary services to.

lssfs
-----
Usage:  lssfs

List all secondary service filters their names, destinations and currently selected service.

setsf
-----
Usage:  setsf <output name> <service name>

Stream the specified service to the secondary service output.

setsfmrl
--------
Usage:  setsfmrl <output name> <mrl>

Change the destination for packets sent to this service filters output. If the MRL cannot be parsed no change will be made to the service filter.

setsfavsonly
------------
Usage:  setsfavsonly <output name> on|off

Enabling AVS Only cause the PMT to be rewritten to only include the first video stream, normal audio stream and the subtitles stream only for the specified service output.

festatus
--------
Usage:  festatus

Displays whether the front end is locked, the bit error rate and signal to noise ratio and the signal strength

scan
----
Usage:  scan <mulitplex>

Tunes to the specified multiplex and wait 5 seconds for PAT/PMT/SDT.

help
----
Usage:  help [<command>]

List all available commands or displays specific help for the command specifed.

lsplugins
---------
Usage:  lsplugins

List all plugins that where loaded at startup.

plugininfo
----------
Usage:  plugininfo <pluginname>

Displays the version, author and descriptor for a specific plugin.


Plugins
-------
Plugins allow DVBStreamer to be extended beyond the simple filtering and
streaming of DVB services.

Plugins can:
- Add new delivery methods (check out fileoutput.c for a simple example of a
  delivery method plugin)
- Add new commands.
- Add new PID filters (for example to extract EPG data)
- Detect when the service/multiplex is changed.

The commands lsplugins and plugininfo can be used to inspected the loaded plugins.

Documentation for the interfaces into DVBStreamer can be generated using the
doxygen and the doxygen.config file in the base directory of dvbstreamer.


Bugs
----
Please report all bugs to the sourceforge forums.
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=164687&atid=832723

Credits
-------
Adam Charrett- Author
Tero Pelander- IPv6 support along with several patches and tested DVB-C.
Thomas Sattler   - Lots of testing for 0.5.
Nicholas Humfrey - Power PC testing and patch.

History
-------
0.7 Remote interface Release
0.6 Stability Release
0.5 Plugin Release
0.4 Daemon mode
0.3 Service Addition/Removal
0.2 Add new commands (addoutput etc)
0.1 First public release
